README.md, before:

# Splunk Operator for Kubernetes

[![License](https://img.shields.io/:license-apache-blue.svg)](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html)
[![GoDoc](https://godoc.org/github.com/splunk/splunk-operator?status.svg)](https://godoc.org/github.com/splunk/splunk-operator)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/splunk/splunk-operator)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/splunk/splunk-operator)
[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/splunk/splunk-operator/tree/develop.svg?style=shield)](https://circleci.com/gh/splunk/splunk-operator/tree/develop)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/splunk/splunk-operator/badge.svg?branch=develop)](https://coveralls.io/github/splunk/splunk-operator?branch=develop)

The Splunk Operator for Kubernetes (SOK) makes it easy for Splunk
Administrators to deploy and operate Enterprise deployments in a Kubernetes
infrastructure. Packaged as a container, it uses the
[operator pattern](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/operator/)
to manage Splunk-specific [custom resources](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/custom-resources/),
following best practices to manage all the underlying Kubernetes objects for you. 

This repository is used to build the Splunk
[Operator](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/operator/)
for Kubernetes (SOK). If you are just looking for documentation on how to
deploy and use the latest release, please see the
[Getting Started Documentation](docs/README.md).


## Prerequisites 

You must have [Docker Engine](https://docs.docker.com/install/) installed to
build the Splunk Operator.

This project now uses [Go modules](https://blog.golang.org/using-go-modules),
which requires [golang](https://golang.org/doc/install) 1.13 or later.
You must `export GO111MODULE=on` if cloning these repositories into your
`$GOPATH` (not recommended).

The [Kubernetes Operator SDK](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk)
must also be installed to build this project.

```
git clone -b v0.15.1 https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk
cd operator-sdk
make tidy
make install
```

You may need to add `$GOPATH/bin` to you path to run the `operator-sdk`
command line tool:

```
export PATH=${PATH}:${GOPATH}/bin
```


## Cloning this repository

```
git clone git@github.com:splunk/splunk-operator.git
cd splunk-operator
```


## Repository overview

This repository consists of the following code used to build the splunk-operator binary:

* `cmd/manager/main.go`: Provides the main() function, where everything begins
* `pkg/apis/`: Source code for the operator's custom resource definition types
* `pkg/controllers/`: Source code for CRD controllers that watch for changes
* `pkg/splunk/reconcile/`: Source code the controllers use to interact with Kubernetes APIs
* `pkg/splunk/enterprise/`: Source code for managing Splunk Enterprise deployments
* `pkg/splunk/spark/`: Source code for managing Spark cluster deployments
* `pkg/splunk/resources/`: Generic utility code used by other splunk modules

`main()` basically just instantiates the `controllers`, and the `controllers` call
into the `reconcile` module to perform actions. The `reconcile` module uses the `enterprise`
and `spark` modules. The types provided by `pkg/apis/` and generic utility code in
`pkg/splunk/resources/` are used universally. Note that the source code for `main()`,
`pkg/apis` and `pkg/controllers` are all generated from templates provided by the
Operator SDK.

In addition to the source code, this repository includes:

* `build`: Build scripts, templates, etc. used to build the container image
* `deploy`: Kubernetes YAML templates used to install the Splunk Operator
* `docs`: Getting Started Guide and other documentation in Markdown format


## Building the operator

You can build the operator by just running `make`.

Other make targets include (more info below):

* `make all`: builds `splunk/splunk-operator` container image (same as `make image`)
* `make builder`: builds the `splunk/splunk-operator-builder` container image
* `make builder-image`: builds `splunk/splunk-operator` using the `splunk/splunk-operator-builder` image
* `make builder-test`: Runs unit tests using the `splunk/splunk-operator-builder` image
* `make image`: builds the `splunk/splunk-operator` container image without using `splunk/splunk-operator-builder`
* `make local`: builds the splunk-operator-local binary for test and debugging purposes
* `make test`: Runs unit tests with Coveralls code coverage output to coverage.out
* `make generate`: runs operator-generate k8s and crds commands, updating installation YAML files
* `make package`: generates tarball of the `splunk/splunk-operator` container image and installation YAML file
* `make clean`: removes the binary build output and `splunk/splunk-operator` container image
* `make run`: runs the splunk operator locally, monitoring the Kubernetes cluster configured in your current `kubectl` context
* `make fmt`: runs `go fmt` on all `*.go` source files in this project
* `make lint`: runs the `golint` utility on all `*.go` source files in this project


## Running the Splunk Operator

Ensure that you have the Custom Resource Definitions installed in your cluster:

```
kubectl apply -f deploy/crds/
```

Use this to run the operator as a local foreground process on your machine:

```
make run
```

This will use your current Kubernetes context from `~/.kube/config` to manage
resources in your current namespace.

Please see the [Getting Started Documentation](docs/README.md) for more
information, including instructions on how to install the operator in your
cluster.

Commit message:

Use SPLUNK_ROLE of standalone even when referring to cluster master (instead of search_head). This corresponds with container image updates in splunk-ansible to allow standalone role to work with cluster master.
Create a headless service for standalone instances. This is required
for spark workers to communicate with them (and possibly other things
as well).

Do not copy annotations from parent objects that are set by kubectl
(such as "kubectl.kubernetes.io/last-applied-configuration")

Various docs updates, including new examples for using external
license masters and indexer clusters.

README.md, after:

# Splunk Operator for Kubernetes

[![License](https://img.shields.io/:license-apache-blue.svg)](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html)
[![GoDoc](https://godoc.org/github.com/splunk/splunk-operator?status.svg)](https://godoc.org/github.com/splunk/splunk-operator)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/splunk/splunk-operator)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/splunk/splunk-operator)
[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/splunk/splunk-operator/tree/develop.svg?style=shield)](https://circleci.com/gh/splunk/splunk-operator/tree/develop)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/splunk/splunk-operator/badge.svg?branch=develop)](https://coveralls.io/github/splunk/splunk-operator?branch=develop)

The Splunk Operator for Kubernetes (SOK) makes it easy for Splunk
Administrators to deploy and operate Enterprise deployments in a Kubernetes
infrastructure. Packaged as a container, it uses the
[operator pattern](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/operator/)
to manage Splunk-specific [custom resources](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/custom-resources/),
following best practices to manage all the underlying Kubernetes objects for you. 

This repository is used to build the Splunk
[Operator](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/operator/)
for Kubernetes (SOK). If you are just looking for documentation on how to
deploy and use the latest release, please see the
[Getting Started Documentation](docs/README.md).


## Prerequisites

You must have [Docker Engine](https://docs.docker.com/install/) installed to
build the Splunk Operator.

This project uses [Go modules](https://blog.golang.org/using-go-modules),
and requires [golang](https://golang.org/doc/install) 1.13 or later.
You must `export GO111MODULE=on` if cloning these repositories into your
`$GOPATH` (not recommended).

The [Kubernetes Operator SDK](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk)
must also be installed to build this project.

```
git clone -b v0.15.1 https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk
cd operator-sdk
make tidy
make install
```

You may need to add `$GOPATH/bin` to you path to run the `operator-sdk`
command line tool:

```
export PATH=${PATH}:${GOPATH}/bin
```

It is also recommended that you install the following golang tools,
which are used by various `make` targets:

```
go get -u golang.org/x/lint/golint
go get -u golang.org/x/tools/cmd/cover
go get -u github.com/mattn/goveralls
```


## Cloning this repository

```
git clone git@github.com:splunk/splunk-operator.git
cd splunk-operator
```


## Repository overview

This repository consists of the following code used to build the splunk-operator binary:

* `cmd/manager/main.go`: Provides the main() function, where everything begins
* `pkg/apis/`: Source code for the operator's custom resource definition types
* `pkg/controllers/`: Source code for CRD controllers that watch for changes
* `pkg/splunk/reconcile/`: Source code the controllers use to interact with Kubernetes APIs
* `pkg/splunk/enterprise/`: Source code for managing Splunk Enterprise deployments
* `pkg/splunk/spark/`: Source code for managing Spark cluster deployments
* `pkg/splunk/resources/`: Generic utility code used by other splunk modules

`main()` basically just instantiates the `controllers`, and the `controllers` call
into the `reconcile` module to perform actions. The `reconcile` module uses the `enterprise`
and `spark` modules. The types provided by `pkg/apis/` and generic utility code in
`pkg/splunk/resources/` are used universally. Note that the source code for `main()`,
`pkg/apis` and `pkg/controllers` are all generated from templates provided by the
Operator SDK.

In addition to the source code, this repository includes:

* `build`: Build scripts, templates, etc. used to build the container image
* `deploy`: Kubernetes YAML templates used to install the Splunk Operator
* `docs`: Getting Started Guide and other documentation in Markdown format


## Building the operator

You can build the operator by just running `make`.

Other make targets include (more info below):

* `make all`: builds `splunk/splunk-operator` container image (same as `make image`)
* `make builder`: builds the `splunk/splunk-operator-builder` container image
* `make builder-image`: builds `splunk/splunk-operator` using the `splunk/splunk-operator-builder` image
* `make builder-test`: Runs unit tests using the `splunk/splunk-operator-builder` image
* `make image`: builds the `splunk/splunk-operator` container image without using `splunk/splunk-operator-builder`
* `make local`: builds the splunk-operator-local binary for test and debugging purposes
* `make test`: Runs unit tests with Coveralls code coverage output to coverage.out
* `make generate`: runs operator-generate k8s and crds commands, updating installation YAML files
* `make package`: generates tarball of the `splunk/splunk-operator` container image and installation YAML file
* `make clean`: removes the binary build output and `splunk/splunk-operator` container image
* `make run`: runs the splunk operator locally, monitoring the Kubernetes cluster configured in your current `kubectl` context
* `make fmt`: runs `go fmt` on all `*.go` source files in this project
* `make lint`: runs the `golint` utility on all `*.go` source files in this project


## Running the Splunk Operator

Ensure that you have the Custom Resource Definitions installed in your cluster:

```
kubectl apply -f deploy/crds/combined.yaml
```

Use this to run the operator as a local foreground process on your machine:

```
make run
```

This will use your current Kubernetes context from `~/.kube/config` to manage
resources in your current namespace.

Please see the [Getting Started Documentation](docs/README.md) for more
information, including instructions on how to install the operator in your
cluster.
