docs/CustomResources.md, before:

# Custom Resource Guide

The Splunk Operator provides a collection of
[custom resources](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/custom-resources/)
you can use to manage Splunk Enterprise deployments in your Kubernetes cluster.

- [Custom Resource Guide](#custom-resource-guide)
  - [Metadata Parameters](#metadata-parameters)
  - [Common Spec Parameters for All Resources](#common-spec-parameters-for-all-resources)
  - [Common Spec Parameters for Splunk Enterprise Resources](#common-spec-parameters-for-splunk-enterprise-resources)
  - [LicenseMaster Resource Spec Parameters](#licensemaster-resource-spec-parameters)
  - [Standalone Resource Spec Parameters](#standalone-resource-spec-parameters)
  - [SearchHeadCluster Resource Spec Parameters](#searchheadcluster-resource-spec-parameters)
  - [ClusterMaster Resource Spec Parameters](#clustermaster-resource-spec-parameters)
  - [IndexerCluster Resource Spec Parameters](#indexercluster-resource-spec-parameters)
  - [Kubernetes Quality of Service classes](#kubernetes-quality-of-service-classes)

For examples on how to use these custom resources, please see
[Configuring Splunk Enterprise Deployments](Examples.md).


## Metadata Parameters

All resources in Kubernetes include a `metadata` section. You can use this
to define a name for a specific instance of the resource, and which namespace
you would like the resource to reside within:

| Key       | Type   | Description                                                                                                 |
| --------- | ------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| name      | string | Each instance of your resource is distinguished using this name.                                            |
| namespace | string | Your instance will be created within this namespace. You must ensure that this namespace exists beforehand. |

If you do not provide a `namespace`, you current context will be used.

```yaml
apiVersion: enterprise.splunk.com/v1
kind: Standalone
metadata:
  name: s1
  namespace: splunk
  finalizers:
  - enterprise.splunk.com/delete-pvc
```

The `enterprise.splunk.com/delete-pvc` finalizer is optional, and may be
used to tell the Splunk Operator that you would like it to remove all the
[Persistent Volumes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/)
associated with the instance when you delete it.


## Common Spec Parameters for All Resources

```yaml
apiVersion: enterprise.splunk.com/v1
kind: Standalone
metadata:
  name: example
spec:
  imagePullPolicy: Always
  resources:
    requests:
      memory: "512Mi"
      cpu: "0.1"
    limits:
      memory: "8Gi"
      cpu: "4"
```

The `spec` section is used to define the desired state for a resource. All
custom resources provided by the Splunk Operator include the following
configuration parameters:

| Key                   | Type       | Description                                                                                                |
| --------------------- | ---------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| image                 | string     | Container image to use for pod instances (overrides `RELATED_IMAGE_SPLUNK_ENTERPRISE` environment variable |
| imagePullPolicy       | string     | Sets pull policy for all images (either "Always" or the default: "IfNotPresent")                           |
| schedulerName         | string     | Name of [Scheduler](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling/kube-scheduler/) to use for pod placement (defaults to "default-scheduler") |
| affinity              | [Affinity](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.17/#affinity-v1-core) | [Kubernetes Affinity](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/assign-pod-node/#affinity-and-anti-affinity) rules that control how pods are assigned to particular nodes |
| resources             | [ResourceRequirements](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.17/#resourcerequirements-v1-core) | The settings for allocating [compute resource requirements](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-compute-resources-container/) to use for each pod instance. |
| serviceTemplate       | [Service](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.17/#service-v1-core) | Template used to create Kubernetes [Services](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/) |

## Common Spec Parameters for Splunk Enterprise Resources

```yaml
apiVersion: enterprise.splunk.com/v1
kind: Standalone
metadata:
  name: example
spec:
  etcVolumeStorageConfig:
    storageClassName: gp2
    storageCapacity: 15Gi
  varVolumeStorageConfig:
    storageClassName: customStorageClass
    storageCapacity: 25Gi
  volumes:
    - name: licenses
      configMap:
        name: splunk-licenses
  licenseMasterRef:
    name: example
  clusterMasterRef:
    name: example
  serviceAccount: custom-serviceaccount
```

The following additional configuration parameters may be used for all Splunk
Enterprise resources, including: `Standalone`, `LicenseMaster`,
`SearchHeadCluster`, `ClusterMaster` and `IndexerCluster`:

| Key                | Type    | Description                                                                   |
| ------------------ | ------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| etcVolumeStorageConfig | StorageClassSpec  | Storage class spec for Splunk etc volume as described in [StorageClass](StorageClass.md) |
| varVolumeStorageConfig | StorageClassSpec  | Storage class spec for Splunk var volume as described in [StorageClass](StorageClass.md) |
| volumes            | [Volume](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.17/#volume-v1-core) | List of one or more [Kubernetes volumes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/). These will be mounted in all container pods as as `/mnt/<name>` |
| defaults           | string  | Inline map of [default.yml](https://github.com/splunk/splunk-ansible/blob/develop/docs/advanced/default.yml.spec.md) overrides used to initialize the environment |
| defaultsUrl        | string  | Full path or URL for one or more [default.yml](https://github.com/splunk/splunk-ansible/blob/develop/docs/advanced/default.yml.spec.md) files, separated by commas |
| licenseUrl         | string  | Full path or URL for a Splunk Enterprise license file                         |
| licenseMasterRef   | [ObjectReference](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.17/#objectreference-v1-core) | Reference to a Splunk Operator managed `LicenseMaster` instance (via `name` and optionally `namespace`) to use for licensing |
| clusterMasterRef  | [ObjectReference](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.17/#objectreference-v1-core) | Reference to a Splunk Operator managed `ClusterMaster` instance (via `name` and optionally `namespace`) to use for indexing |
| serviceAccount | [ServiceAccount](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/) | Represents the service account used by the pods deployed by the CRD |

## LicenseMaster Resource Spec Parameters

```yaml
apiVersion: enterprise.splunk.com/v1
kind: LicenseMaster
metadata:
  name: example
spec:
  volumes:
    - name: licenses
      configMap:
        name: splunk-licenses
  licenseUrl: /mnt/licenses/enterprise.lic
```

Please see [Common Spec Parameters for All Resources](#common-spec-parameters-for-all-resources)
and [Common Spec Parameters for All Splunk Enterprise Resources](#common-spec-parameters-for-all-splunk-enterprise-resources).
The `LicenseMaster` resource does not provide any additional configuration parameters.


## Standalone Resource Spec Parameters

```yaml
apiVersion: enterprise.splunk.com/v1
kind: Standalone
metadata:
  name: standalone
  labels:
    app: SplunkStandAlone
    type: Splunk
  finalizers:
  - enterprise.splunk.com/delete-pvc
```

In addition to [Common Spec Parameters for All Resources](#common-spec-parameters-for-all-resources)
and [Common Spec Parameters for All Splunk Enterprise Resources](#common-spec-parameters-for-all-splunk-enterprise-resources),
the `Standalone` resource provides the following `Spec` configuration parameters:

| Key        | Type    | Description                                       |
| ---------- | ------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
| replicas   | integer | The number of standalone replicas (defaults to 1) |


## SearchHeadCluster Resource Spec Parameters

```yaml
apiVersion: enterprise.splunk.com/v1
kind: SearchHeadCluster
metadata:
  name: example
spec:
  replicas: 5
```

In addition to [Common Spec Parameters for All Resources](#common-spec-parameters-for-all-resources)
and [Common Spec Parameters for All Splunk Enterprise Resources](#common-spec-parameters-for-all-splunk-enterprise-resources),
the `SearchHeadCluster` resource provides the following `Spec` configuration parameters:

| Key      | Type    | Description                                                  |
| -------- | ------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| replicas | integer | The number of search heads cluster members (minimum of 3, which is the default) |

## ClusterMaster Resource Spec Parameters
ClusterMaster resource does not have a required spec parameter, but to configure SmartStore, you can specify indexes and volume configuration as below -
```yaml
apiVersion: enterprise.splunk.com/v1
kind: ClusterMaster
metadata:
  name: example-cm
spec:
  smartstore:
    defaults:
        remotePath: $_index_name
        volumeName: msos_s2s3_vol
    indexes:
      - name: salesdata1
        remotePath: $_index_name
        volumeName: msos_s2s3_vol
      - name: salesdata2
        remotePath: $_index_name
        volumeName: msos_s2s3_vol
      - name: salesdata3
        remotePath: $_index_name
        volumeName: msos_s2s3_vol
    volumes:
      - name: msos_s2s3_vol
        path: <remote path>
        endpoint: <remote endpoint>
        secretRef: s3-secret
```

## IndexerCluster Resource Spec Parameters

```yaml
apiVersion: enterprise.splunk.com/v1
kind: IndexerCluster
metadata:
  name: example
spec:
  replicas: 3
  clusterMasterRef: 
    name: example-cm
```
Note:  `clusterMasterRef` is required field in case of IndexerCluster resource since it will be used to connect the IndexerCluster to ClusterMaster resource.

In addition to [Common Spec Parameters for All Resources](#common-spec-parameters-for-all-resources)
and [Common Spec Parameters for All Splunk Enterprise Resources](#common-spec-parameters-for-all-splunk-enterprise-resources),
the `IndexerCluster` resource provides the following `Spec` configuration parameters:

| Key        | Type    | Description                                           |
| ---------- | ------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| replicas   | integer | The number of indexer cluster members (defaults to 1) |


## Kubernetes Quality of Service classes:
Use the Kubernetes [Quality of Service classes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/quality-service-pod/) to configure pod resource allocation, and define the expected behavior of pods when they exceed resource limits. 


| QoS        | Summary| Description    
| ---------- | ------- | ------- |
| Guaranteed | CPU/Mem ```requests``` = CPU/Mem ```limits```    | When the CPU and memory  ```requests``` and ```limits``` values are equal, the pod is given a QoS class of Guaranteed. This level of service is recommended for Splunk Enterprise ___production environments___. |
| Burstable | CPU/Mem ```requests``` < CPU/Mem ```limits```  | When the CPU and memory  ```requests``` value is set lower than the ```limits``` the pod is given a QoS class of Burstable. This level of service is useful in a user acceptance testing ___(UAT) environment___, where the pods run with minimum resources, and Kubernetes allocates additional resources depending on usage. |
| BestEffort | No CPU/Mem ```requests``` or ```limits``` are set | When the ```requests``` or ```limits``` values are not set, the pod is given a QoS class of BestEffort. This level of service is sufficient for ___testing, or a small development task___. |

The resources guidelines for running production Splunk Enterprise instances in pods using the Splunk Operator are the same as running Splunk Enterprise natively on a supported operating system. Refer to the Splunk Enterprise [Reference Hardware documentation](https://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/latest/Capacity/Referencehardware) for additional detail.

  
### A Guaranteed QoS Class example:
The minimum resource requirements for a Standalone Splunk Enterprise instance are 24 vCPU and 12GB RAM. Set equal ```requests``` and ```limits``` values for CPU and memory to establish a QoS class of Guaranteed. 

*Note: A pod will not start on a node that cannot meet the CPU and memory ```requests``` value.*

Example:

```yaml
apiVersion: enterprise.splunk.com/v1
kind: Standalone
metadata:
  name: example
spec:
  imagePullPolicy: Always
  resources:
    requests:
      memory: "12Gi"
      cpu: "24"
    limits:
      memory: "12Gi"
      cpu: "24"  
```

### A Burstable QoS Class example:
Set the ```requests``` value for CPU and memory lower than the ```limits``` value to establish a QoS class of Burstable. The Standalone Splunk Enterprise instance will start with minimal indexing and search capacity, but will be allowed to scale up to the CPU and memory ```limits``` values.

Example:

```yaml
apiVersion: enterprise.splunk.com/v1
kind: Standalone
metadata:
  name: example
spec:
  imagePullPolicy: Always
  resources:
    requests:
      memory: "2Gi"
      cpu: "4"
    limits:
      memory: "12Gi"
      cpu: "24"  
```


### A BestEffort QoS Class example:
With no ```requests``` or ```limits``` values set for CPU and memory, the QoS class is set to BestEffort.

Example:

```yaml
apiVersion: enterprise.splunk.com/v1
kind: Standalone
metadata:
  name: example
spec:
  imagePullPolicy: Always

```

### Pod resource management 

__CPU Throttling__

In the QoS examples, Kubernetes will begin throttling CPUs if the pod's demand for CPU  exceeds the value set in the ```limits``` parameter. If your nodes have extra CPU resources available, leaving the ```limits``` value unset will allow the pods to utilize more CPUs.

__POD Eviction - OOM__

In the QoS examples, Kubernetes will evict a pod from the node if the pod's memory demands exceeds the value set in the ```limits``` parameter. To avoid pod eviction due to memory usage, set the ```requests``` and ```limits``` values for memory to the same value.

Commit message:

Incorporated feedback from multiple reviews. Key updates are : Revised the K8S supported platform section Revised the Smart Storage related section Revised remote storage support sections

docs/CustomResources.md, after:

# Custom Resource Guide

The Splunk Operator provides a collection of
[custom resources](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/custom-resources/)
you can use to manage Splunk Enterprise deployments in your Kubernetes cluster.

- [Custom Resource Guide](#custom-resource-guide)
  - [Metadata Parameters](#metadata-parameters)
  - [Common Spec Parameters for All Resources](#common-spec-parameters-for-all-resources)
  - [Common Spec Parameters for Splunk Enterprise Resources](#common-spec-parameters-for-splunk-enterprise-resources)
  - [LicenseMaster Resource Spec Parameters](#licensemaster-resource-spec-parameters)
  - [Standalone Resource Spec Parameters](#standalone-resource-spec-parameters)
  - [SearchHeadCluster Resource Spec Parameters](#searchheadcluster-resource-spec-parameters)
  - [ClusterMaster Resource Spec Parameters](#clustermaster-resource-spec-parameters)
  - [IndexerCluster Resource Spec Parameters](#indexercluster-resource-spec-parameters)
  - [Example of Guaranteed and Burstable QoS](#example-of-guaranteed-and-burstable-qos)

For examples on how to use these custom resources, please see
[Configuring Splunk Enterprise Deployments](Examples.md).


## Metadata Parameters

All resources in Kubernetes include a `metadata` section. You can use this
to define a name for a specific instance of the resource, and which namespace
you would like the resource to reside within:

| Key       | Type   | Description                                                                                                 |
| --------- | ------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| name      | string | Each instance of your resource is distinguished using this name.                                            |
| namespace | string | Your instance will be created within this namespace. You must ensure that this namespace exists beforehand. |

If you do not provide a `namespace`, you current context will be used.

```yaml
apiVersion: enterprise.splunk.com/v1
kind: Standalone
metadata:
  name: s1
  namespace: splunk
  finalizers:
  - enterprise.splunk.com/delete-pvc
```

The `enterprise.splunk.com/delete-pvc` finalizer is optional, and may be
used to tell the Splunk Operator that you would like it to remove all the
[Persistent Volumes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/)
associated with the instance when you delete it.


## Common Spec Parameters for All Resources

```yaml
apiVersion: enterprise.splunk.com/v1
kind: Standalone
metadata:
  name: example
spec:
  imagePullPolicy: Always
  resources:
    requests:
      memory: "512Mi"
      cpu: "0.1"
    limits:
      memory: "8Gi"
      cpu: "4"
```

The `spec` section is used to define the desired state for a resource. All
custom resources provided by the Splunk Operator include the following
configuration parameters:

| Key                   | Type       | Description                                                                                                |
| --------------------- | ---------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| image                 | string     | Container image to use for pod instances (overrides `RELATED_IMAGE_SPLUNK_ENTERPRISE` environment variable |
| imagePullPolicy       | string     | Sets pull policy for all images (either "Always" or the default: "IfNotPresent")                           |
| schedulerName         | string     | Name of [Scheduler](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling/kube-scheduler/) to use for pod placement (defaults to "default-scheduler") |
| affinity              | [Affinity](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.17/#affinity-v1-core) | [Kubernetes Affinity](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/assign-pod-node/#affinity-and-anti-affinity) rules that control how pods are assigned to particular nodes |
| resources             | [ResourceRequirements](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.17/#resourcerequirements-v1-core) | The settings for allocating [compute resource requirements](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-compute-resources-container/) to use for each pod instance. |
| serviceTemplate       | [Service](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.17/#service-v1-core) | Template used to create Kubernetes [Services](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/) |

## Common Spec Parameters for Splunk Enterprise Resources

```yaml
apiVersion: enterprise.splunk.com/v1
kind: Standalone
metadata:
  name: example
spec:
  etcVolumeStorageConfig:
    storageClassName: gp2
    storageCapacity: 15Gi
  varVolumeStorageConfig:
    storageClassName: customStorageClass
    storageCapacity: 25Gi
  volumes:
    - name: licenses
      configMap:
        name: splunk-licenses
  licenseMasterRef:
    name: example
  clusterMasterRef:
    name: example
  serviceAccount: custom-serviceaccount
```

The following additional configuration parameters may be used for all Splunk
Enterprise resources, including: `Standalone`, `LicenseMaster`,
`SearchHeadCluster`, `ClusterMaster` and `IndexerCluster`:

| Key                | Type    | Description                                                                   |
| ------------------ | ------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| etcVolumeStorageConfig | StorageClassSpec  | Storage class spec for Splunk etc volume as described in [StorageClass](StorageClass.md) |
| varVolumeStorageConfig | StorageClassSpec  | Storage class spec for Splunk var volume as described in [StorageClass](StorageClass.md) |
| volumes            | [Volume](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.17/#volume-v1-core) | List of one or more [Kubernetes volumes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/). These will be mounted in all container pods as as `/mnt/<name>` |
| defaults           | string  | Inline map of [default.yml](https://github.com/splunk/splunk-ansible/blob/develop/docs/advanced/default.yml.spec.md) overrides used to initialize the environment |
| defaultsUrl        | string  | Full path or URL for one or more [default.yml](https://github.com/splunk/splunk-ansible/blob/develop/docs/advanced/default.yml.spec.md) files, separated by commas |
| licenseUrl         | string  | Full path or URL for a Splunk Enterprise license file                         |
| licenseMasterRef   | [ObjectReference](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.17/#objectreference-v1-core) | Reference to a Splunk Operator managed `LicenseMaster` instance (via `name` and optionally `namespace`) to use for licensing |
| clusterMasterRef  | [ObjectReference](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.17/#objectreference-v1-core) | Reference to a Splunk Operator managed `ClusterMaster` instance (via `name` and optionally `namespace`) to use for indexing |
| serviceAccount | [ServiceAccount](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/) | Represents the service account used by the pods deployed by the CRD |

## LicenseMaster Resource Spec Parameters

```yaml
apiVersion: enterprise.splunk.com/v1
kind: LicenseMaster
metadata:
  name: example
spec:
  volumes:
    - name: licenses
      configMap:
        name: splunk-licenses
  licenseUrl: /mnt/licenses/enterprise.lic
```

Please see [Common Spec Parameters for All Resources](#common-spec-parameters-for-all-resources)
and [Common Spec Parameters for All Splunk Enterprise Resources](#common-spec-parameters-for-all-splunk-enterprise-resources).
The `LicenseMaster` resource does not provide any additional configuration parameters.


## Standalone Resource Spec Parameters

```yaml
apiVersion: enterprise.splunk.com/v1
kind: Standalone
metadata:
  name: standalone
  labels:
    app: SplunkStandAlone
    type: Splunk
  finalizers:
  - enterprise.splunk.com/delete-pvc
```

In addition to [Common Spec Parameters for All Resources](#common-spec-parameters-for-all-resources)
and [Common Spec Parameters for All Splunk Enterprise Resources](#common-spec-parameters-for-all-splunk-enterprise-resources),
the `Standalone` resource provides the following `Spec` configuration parameters:

| Key        | Type    | Description                                       |
| ---------- | ------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
| replicas   | integer | The number of standalone replicas (defaults to 1) |


## SearchHeadCluster Resource Spec Parameters

```yaml
apiVersion: enterprise.splunk.com/v1
kind: SearchHeadCluster
metadata:
  name: example
spec:
  replicas: 5
```

In addition to [Common Spec Parameters for All Resources](#common-spec-parameters-for-all-resources)
and [Common Spec Parameters for All Splunk Enterprise Resources](#common-spec-parameters-for-all-splunk-enterprise-resources),
the `SearchHeadCluster` resource provides the following `Spec` configuration parameters:

| Key      | Type    | Description                                                  |
| -------- | ------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| replicas | integer | The number of search heads cluster members (minimum of 3, which is the default) |

## ClusterMaster Resource Spec Parameters
ClusterMaster resource does not have a required spec parameter, but to configure SmartStore, you can specify indexes and volume configuration as below -
```yaml
apiVersion: enterprise.splunk.com/v1
kind: ClusterMaster
metadata:
  name: example-cm
spec:
  smartstore:
    defaults:
        remotePath: $_index_name
        volumeName: msos_s2s3_vol
    indexes:
      - name: salesdata1
        remotePath: $_index_name
        volumeName: msos_s2s3_vol
      - name: salesdata2
        remotePath: $_index_name
        volumeName: msos_s2s3_vol
      - name: salesdata3
        remotePath: $_index_name
        volumeName: msos_s2s3_vol
    volumes:
      - name: msos_s2s3_vol
        path: <remote path>
        endpoint: <remote endpoint>
        secretRef: s3-secret
```

## IndexerCluster Resource Spec Parameters

```yaml
apiVersion: enterprise.splunk.com/v1
kind: IndexerCluster
metadata:
  name: example
spec:
  replicas: 3
  clusterMasterRef: 
    name: example-cm
```
Note:  `clusterMasterRef` is required field in case of IndexerCluster resource since it will be used to connect the IndexerCluster to ClusterMaster resource.

In addition to [Common Spec Parameters for All Resources](#common-spec-parameters-for-all-resources)
and [Common Spec Parameters for All Splunk Enterprise Resources](#common-spec-parameters-for-all-splunk-enterprise-resources),
the `IndexerCluster` resource provides the following `Spec` configuration parameters:

| Key        | Type    | Description                                           |
| ---------- | ------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| replicas   | integer | The number of indexer cluster members (defaults to 1) |


## Example of Guaranteed and Burstable QoS

As given in the [Kubernetes Quality of Service section](readme#using-kubernetes-quality-of-service-classes), you can set up your kubernetes cluster with different Quality of Services by using your Pods’ CPU and Memory resources values. Following are examples of Guaranteed and Burstable QoS:
  
### A Guaranteed QoS Class example:
The minimum resource requirements for a Standalone Splunk Enterprise instance are 24 vCPU and 12GB RAM. Set equal ```requests``` and ```limits``` values for CPU and memory to establish a QoS class of Guaranteed. 

*Note: A pod will not start on a node that cannot meet the CPU and memory ```requests``` value.*

Example:

```yaml
apiVersion: enterprise.splunk.com/v1
kind: Standalone
metadata:
  name: example
spec:
  imagePullPolicy: Always
  resources:
    requests:
      memory: "12Gi"
      cpu: "24"
    limits:
      memory: "12Gi"
      cpu: "24"  
```

### A Burstable QoS Class example:
Set the ```requests``` value for CPU and memory lower than the ```limits``` value to establish a QoS class of Burstable. The Standalone Splunk Enterprise instance should start with minimal indexing and search capacity, but should be allowed to scale up if Kubernetes is able to allocate additional CPU and Memory upto ```limits``` values.

Example:

```yaml
apiVersion: enterprise.splunk.com/v1
kind: Standalone
metadata:
  name: example
spec:
  imagePullPolicy: Always
  resources:
    requests:
      memory: "2Gi"
      cpu: "4"
    limits:
      memory: "12Gi"
      cpu: "24"  
```

### A BestEffort QoS Class example:
With no requests or limits values set for CPU and memory, the QoS class is set to BestEffort. As the Splunk Operator sets the default values for resources when you don’t provide any values for the CPU/Mem resources, so the BestEffort QoS is not a viable option with Splunk Operator.

### Pod Resources Management

__CPU Throttling__

Kubernetes starts throttling CPUs if a pod's demand for CPU exceeds the value set in the ```limits``` parameter. If your nodes have extra CPU resources available, leaving the ```limits``` value unset will allow the pods to utilize more CPUs.

__POD Eviction - OOM__

As oppose to throttling in case of CPU cycles starvation,  Kubernetes will evict a pod from the node if the pod's memory demands exceeds the value set in the ```limits``` parameter.
